+++
title = 'Monitoring Tools'

time = 20
[objectives]
    1='List the benefits of monitoring'
    2='Define observability'
[build]
  render = 'never'
  list = 'local'
  publishResources = false

+++

Monitoring is crucial for understanding the behavior of your applications and infrastructure, particularly in cloud environments where many components work together to deliver an application. Monitoring not only helps you to diagnose and fix issues faster, but it also plays a pivotal role in optimizing performance and planning for scalability.

### Why is Monitoring Important?

- **Performance Tuning**: Real-time data helps you understand how well your system is performing and where bottlenecks may be forming.

- **Issue Identification**: Proactive monitoring can alert you to issues before they impact your users, allowing for quicker resolution.

- **Security**: Monitoring can help identify unauthorized access or anomalies that could indicate a security breach.

### Observability

Observability is the ability to understand the internal state of your system just by examining its outputs. An observable system makes it easier to identify the root causes of failures and debug or optimize code. Observability is often considered the superset of monitoring, logging, and other diagnostic activities.

### Monitoring with AWS CloudWatch

[AWS CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) is a robust monitoring solution that allows you to collect and track metrics, collect and monitor log files, and set alarms. CloudWatch can monitor AWS resources like EC2 instances, RDS databases, and S3 buckets, as well as custom metrics generated by your applications.

Using AWS CloudWatch, you can create dashboards to visualize metrics, set thresholds for alarms, and even automatically react to changes in your AWS resources.

By setting up monitoring tools and learning the importance of observability, you are taking proactive steps to maintain high availability and performance of your cloud services and applications.
